.TH MANYBOT.CONF 5 "April 2026" "ManyBot 2.4.3" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
manybot.conf \- ManyBot configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I manybot.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I manybot.conf
file configures the ManyBot WhatsApp bot. It uses a simple key-value format
with support for multiline lists. Comments start with \fB#\fR.
.PP
The file must be located in the project root directory, alongside
.IR package.json .
.SH FORMAT
.nf
# Comments start with '#'

KEY=value
KEY=[item1, item2, item3]
.fi
.SS Key-Value Pairs
Simple configuration values:
.PP
.nf
CLIENT_ID=my_bot
CMD_PREFIX=!
LANGUAGE=en
.fi
.SS Multiline Lists
Arrays spanning multiple lines:
.PP
.nf
CHATS=[
    123456789@c.us,
    123456789@g.us
]

PLUGINS=[
    many,
    figurinha,
    audio,
    video
]
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Core Settings
.TP
.B CLIENT_ID=\fIstring\fR
Unique identifier for the bot session.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Default: \fBbot_permanente\fR
.IP \(bu 2
Creates a \fIsession/CLIENT_ID/\fR folder for authentication data
.IP \(bu 2
Changing this starts a new session (requires QR code rescan)
.RE
.TP
.B CMD_PREFIX=\fIcharacter\fR
Character that prefixes all bot commands.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Default: \fB!\fR
.IP \(bu 2
Example: \fB!\fR makes commands like \fB!video\fR, \fB!audio\fR
.IP \(bu 2
Changing to \fB.\fR would make commands \fB.video\fR, \fB.audio\fR
.RE
.TP
.B LANGUAGE=\fIcode\fR
Bot interface language.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Default: \fBen\fR (English)
.IP \(bu 2
Options: \fBen\fR, \fBpt\fR (Portuguese), \fBes\fR (Spanish)
.IP \(bu 2
Fallback to English if selected language not found
.RE
.SS Chat Settings
.TP
.B CHATS=[\fIid1\fR, \fIid2\fR, ...]
Whitelist of chat IDs where the bot responds.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Default: \fB[]\fR (empty = respond to all chats)
.IP \(bu 2
Private chat format: \fBnumber@c.us\fR
.IP \(bu 2
Group format: \fBnumber@g.us\fR or \fBnumber-number@g.us\fR
.IP \(bu 2
Use \fBnode src/utils/get_id.js\fR to discover chat IDs
.RE
.SS Plugin Settings
.TP
.B PLUGINS=[\fIname1\fR, \fIname2\fR, ...]
List of plugins to load at startup.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Default: \fB[]\fR (no plugins loaded)
.IP \(bu 2
Each name must match a folder in \fIsrc/plugins/\fR
.IP \(bu 2
Order matters: plugins load in listed order
.IP \(bu 2
Comment out or remove to disable without deleting files
.RE
.SS Built-in Plugins
.TP
.B many
Lists all available commands. Required for \fB!many\fR to work.
.TP
.B figurinha
Converts images/GIFs/videos to WhatsApp stickers.
.TP
.B video
Downloads videos from URLs.
.TP
.B audio
Downloads audio from videos as voice messages.
.TP
.B adivinha\(,c\(oao
Guessing game (1-100).
.TP
.B forca
Hangman game.
.TP
.B obrigado
Responds to thank-you messages.
.SH CUSTOM SETTINGS
You can add any custom key-value pairs for use by plugins:
.PP
.nf
# In manybot.conf
ADMIN_NUMBER=5511999999999@c.us
API_KEY=your_secret_key
MAX_DOWNLOAD_SIZE=50MB
.fi
.PP
Access in plugins:
.nf
import { ADMIN_NUMBER, API_KEY, MAX_DOWNLOAD_SIZE } from "../../config.js";
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Minimal Configuration
.nf
# Basic bot setup
CLIENT_ID=my_bot
CMD_PREFIX=!
LANGUAGE=en

PLUGINS=[
    many
]
.fi
.SS Production Configuration
.nf
# Production bot with whitelist
CLIENT_ID=bot_prod
CMD_PREFIX=/
LANGUAGE=pt

CHATS=[
    5511999999999@c.us,
    5511888888888-123456789@g.us
]

PLUGINS=[
    many,
    figurinha,
    video,
    audio,
    obrigado
]

# Custom settings
ADMIN_NUMBER=5511999999999@c.us
LOG_LEVEL=info
.fi
.SS Development Configuration
.nf
# Debug/development setup
CLIENT_ID=bot_dev
CMD_PREFIX=!
LANGUAGE=en

# Respond to all chats
CHATS=[]

# All plugins for testing
PLUGINS=[
    many,
    figurinha,
    video,
    audio,
    adivinha\(,c\(oao,
    forca,
    obrigado
]
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I manybot.conf
Main configuration file (must be created by user)
.TP
.I manybot.conf.example
Example configuration with documentation comments
.SH NOTES
\(bu Keys are case-sensitive
.br
\(bu Values are read as strings unless they're list syntax
.br
\(bu Inline comments supported: \fBKEY=value # comment\fR
.br
\(bu Multiline lists must end with \fB]\fR on its own line or last item line
.br
\(bu Whitespace in values is trimmed
.br
\(u Missing optional values use built-in defaults
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR manybot (1),
.BR manybot-plugin (1),
.BR manyplug (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by synt-xerror.
