.TH MANYBOT 1 "April 2026" "ManyBot 2.4.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
manybot \- local WhatsApp bot with plugin system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B node
.I ./src/main.js
.br
.B node
.I src/utils/get_id.js
.br
.B bash
.I ./setup
.br
.B bash
.I ./update
.SH DESCRIPTION
ManyBot is a 100%% local WhatsApp bot that operates without relying on the
official WhatsApp API. It uses whatsapp-web.js to connect as a regular
WhatsApp client and provides a modular plugin system for extending functionality.
.PP
The bot supports multiple chats in a single session, runs headless (without
a GUI), and can be configured through a simple configuration file.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B !many
List all available commands from loaded plugins.
.TP
.B !figurinha
Convert images, GIFs, and videos to stickers.
.TP
.B !video \fIURL\fR
Download videos from supported platforms.
.TP
.B !audio \fIURL\fR
Download audio from videos and send as voice message.
.TP
.B !adivinhacao comecar
Start a guessing game (1-100).
.TP
.B !forca comecar
Start a hangman game.
.TP
.B !obrigado
Bot responds with a thank-you message.
.PP
Command prefix can be configured via
.B CMD_PREFIX
in
.IR manybot.conf .
Default is
.BR ! .
.SH CONFIGURATION
ManyBot uses a configuration file
.I manybot.conf
in the project root. Key options:
.TP
.B CLIENT_ID=\fIname\fR
Unique identifier for the bot session. Creates a session/\fIname\fR folder
for authentication data. Default: \fIbot_permanente\fR.
.TP
.B CMD_PREFIX=\fIchar\fR
Character prefixing all commands. Default: \fI!\fR.
.TP
.B LANGUAGE=\fIcode\fR
Bot interface language: \fBen\fR (English), \fBpt\fR (Portuguese), or \fBes\fR (Spanish).
Default: \fBen\fR.
.TP
.B CHATS=[\fIid1\fR, \fIid2\fR, ...]
List of allowed chat IDs. Empty array allows all chats.
Format: \fBnumber@c.us\fR for private chats, \fBnumber@g.us\fR for groups.
.TP
.B PLUGINS=[\fIname1\fR, \fIname2\fR, ...]
List of plugins to load at startup. Each name corresponds to a folder in
.IR src/plugins/ .
.PP
See
.BR manybot.conf (5)
for complete configuration reference.
.SH PLUGINS
Plugins extend ManyBot functionality without modifying the kernel. Each plugin
is a folder under
.I src/plugins/
containing:
.TP
.I index.js
Main plugin file exporting a default async function receiving \fB{ msg, api }\fR.
.TP
.I manyplug.json
Plugin manifest describing name, version, category, service status, and dependencies.
.TP
.I locale/
Optional translation files (\fBen.json\fR, \fBpt.json\fR, \fBes.json\fR).
.PP
Plugins receive two objects:
.TP
.B msg
Message information including \fBbody\fR, \fBargs\fR, \fBtype\fR, \fBsender\fR,
\fBhasMedia\fR, methods \fBis()\fR, \fBreply()\fR, \fBdownloadMedia()\fR.
.TP
.B api
Interaction methods including \fBsend()\fR, \fBsendVideo()\fR, \fBsendAudio()\fR,
\fBsendImage()\fR, \fBsendSticker()\fR, \fBgetPlugin()\fR, and \fBlog\fR methods.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I manybot.conf
Main configuration file. See \fBmanybot.conf(5)\fR.
.TP
.I session/
Authentication data and WhatsApp session storage.
.TP
.I src/plugins/
Plugin directory containing all installed plugins.
.TP
.I src/main.js
Bot entry point.
.TP
.I logs/
Log files directory.
.TP
.I update.log
Update script log output.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NODE_ENV
Set to \fBproduction\fR to disable development features.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
General error
.TP
.B 130
Interrupted by user (Ctrl+C)
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS First run
.nf
$ node ./src/main.js
# Scan QR code with WhatsApp:
# Menu \-> Linked Devices \-> Link a Device
.fi
.SS Get chat IDs
.nf
$ node src/utils/get_id.js
# Send a message in the target chat to see the ID
.fi
.SS Update to latest version
.nf
$ bash ./update
.fi
.SH SECURITY
\(bu Bot runs with same privileges as the user running it
.br
\(bu Session data stored in \fIsession/\fR should be protected (chmod 700)
.br
\(bu CHATS whitelist recommended to limit bot exposure
.br
\(bu No official WhatsApp API keys required or used
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR manybot.conf (5),
.BR manybot-plugin (1),
.BR manyplug (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by synt-xerror.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Licensed under GPLv3. See LICENSE file for details.
.br
https://github.com/synt-xerror/manybot
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/synt-xerror/manybot/issues
